Commission of
order first up is a roll call and c alet
and uh I guess I'll I'll start out by
saying that uh I think last
Friday or Thursday uh you got a email
from Steve Nelson who is uh experiencing
some unexpected personal issues in his
life right this minute and uh he is uh
having to resign from the Planning and
Zoning commission so he will not be with
us for the foreseeable
future I I hope that at some point uh
he's able to rejoin the commission but
for now he he did submit his letter of
resignation and uh we'll be working on
that so for roll call here tonight I see
an CR is
present I see Scott ban is here Leanne
Hutchinson is with
us Kevin I think I saw you uh Kevin's
here um and I am
here Susan England and anarie uh are are
both absent tonight
so Kevin I will be seting you for Steve
Nelson tonight
the uh next up on the list is uh
addition and changes to the
agenda
and I have
uh no additions or changes anybody else
have anything that we need to uh add to
the
list Jed would it be appropriate to add
an item to discuss um filling Steve
Nelson
spot um
I'll do that under commission
discussion and I don't plan to fill that
spot
tonight and got a uh we'll talk about it
when we get down to item nine on the
agenda okay I do have one other item
it's not an addition or change but this
seems like the appropriate time there
seems to be a few issues with the
website so if you went on uh earlier
today for instance and looking for the
agenda along with the agendas it wasn't
there it was on the Cal you could find
it through the calendar but not agendas
and I ran across another I was told that
it was just a it's an issue that will be
worked out um it's not a posting issue
it was a systemic issue of some sort
that's all I have thanks
okay given that there's no changes to
the agenda then we'll move on to public
comment and uh does anybody have any
comments on anything
that is not on the agenda that they
would like to make it this
time uh hearing none we'll move down to
new
business and the first item up is
receipt of application and set public
hearing for the property of Tyler Ricket
Ricker on 166 Route 6 the applicant
seeking a special permit for home
occupation
um Tyler I I
see you're here
um I I apologize to the commission for
not sending the stuff out it is posted
online took us a little bit to uh to get
it there but uh I I see uh that we've
got plenty of information there so uh at
this
point I consider the application
received as of you know June 18th and
uh I would make a
motion that we set a public hearing to
discuss the
application for our next
meeting which is on July
16th okay
I'm looking for a second to that
motion that okay meeting on July 6th
16th thank you yeah that's what I got
off your agenda there I I didn't look
okay I heard six I'm sorry yeah okay no
it's the 16th so our next regularly
scheduled meeting
um so we've got a motion we've got a
second any discussion on that at this
point okay hearing no discussion uh I'll
call for a vote Ann hi Scott hi
leam
I Kevin hi can I vote I as well the
motion passes 500 we'll hold a public
hearing before our regular meeting uh at
the next uh next meeting and Tyler if
all goes
uh well with the public hearing and and
the review of the application uh I would
expect we would be able to act on on
that application in our next
meeting okay perfect very good any
questions for us Tyler uh not at this
time no okay thank you for joining us
tonight all right thank you guys have a
good one you too
um next that completes new business next
up is old business and uh the first item
is to set public hearing date for the
Gravel Pit rout Route Six number
517 the
um Jim you want to uh brief us on uh
your review of the application that was
submitted
well I mean the application appears to
be
complete I did have a conversation with
Chris Bell I sent him to correspondents
spoke to him this afternoon um he's well
aware of what's going on and I believe
he he indicated that in all probability
um Mr uh
um the applicant's attorney will be
there representing him um Chris no
longer attends meeting due to retirement
and Bill
Jes will in all probability not be
there okay and I I did indicate that I
would be getting back to him after I've
had a chance to review a few things but
but pretty much I think it's all it's
pretty clear from
here and he's well aware of of what the
commission's concerns are okay uh did
you uh
direct him to any of the applicable
points in the regulations that he might
want to take a look at I did okay very
good so
uh with that in mind I'll make a motion
to uh schedule a public
hearing for the Gravel Pit uh
restoration
plan at 517 Route 6
to take place prior to our next regular
meeting on the 16th of
July I'll second that thank you an any
uh any discussion at that
point Jed this is Leanne yep go ahead
Leanne um just to be clear you mean when
you say prior to the next regular
meeting you mean on the same day just
prior to the commencing the regular
meeting right right we will have uh you
know and I've got to I've got to sort
out uh the best way to do two different
public
hearings but
uh we'll we'll sort that out between now
and then and uh U I would expect that
that our get together will start at 7
o'clock we'll hold the two public
hearings after those are done then we'll
uh move on to the regular meeting and
and do whatever it is that we need to do
at
that okay
um yeah so you know in and Jim and I did
uh did have a conversation with h the
attorney
uh leading up to tonight and in uh given
that the application was essentially
complete
um he he felt uh we were obliged to uh
to hold a public hearing hold a
discussion in that forum and then take
whatever action uh that the commission
needs to following
that so okay so that uh that's that's
all I'll say about that I want to make
sure that uh I I try to remain uh
squeaky clean on on that
particular you know matter especially
because I do uh
still expect
uh a convoluted path to the Finish Line
however that might
be so that got through most of the uh
the actual business uh here pretty quick
tonight next item up under old business
is the discussion on the plan of
conservation and
development and John I'll turn it over
didn't vote on that oh I'm sorry thank
you Le y and and Marina always
Faithfully notes in the minutes whenever
we don't uh second or or vote on a
motion so I I really appreciate uh you
backing me up there Leanne we'll call
for a vote on scheduling public hearing
on July 16 an hi Scott hi
Leanne hi Kevin hi and I vote I as well
the motion passes uh 5 Zer Z thanks
again
Leanne you're
welcome okay now we're gonna turn it
over to John for discussion uh on the
vision statement for the planet
conservation
development okay uh Thanks Jen um so
hopefully people uh received and got a
little bit of a chance to review um I'm
going to go ahead and put it on the
screen because I will um ask for input
and then um
we can kind of Mark it up together let's
see and draft
working and hopefully people can see
that
um so this is basically based
on um input that we that you know from
from uh numerous prior meetings when all
of you were sort of talking about um
things that are things that are
important about um
protecting and end over things that are
really important sort of looking forward
as well as input from um the prior plan
and this and the and the community
survey um so I'm going with your
Indulgence just to read it through it's
not really that long I'm just going to
read it through ask you all sort of
listen and then I'll I'll throw it open
to the the group for comment and um when
I do
please do not fear of uh hurting my
feelings or or uh anything like this
this is absolutely your statement so we
want to make sure that we get everyone's
sort of honest honest feedback so this
is the the draft vision statement the
town of Andover Planning and Zoning
Commission in developing this update to
the 2015 plan of conservation and
development is Guided by a deep
commitment to conserving and enhancing
the historic rural atmosphere of Andover
and by the intent to promote actions and
policies that will encourage a safe
connected and sustainable Community
where wider opport unities are available
to
all a fundamentally rural agricultural
Nature has defined the community of
Andover for centuries and it continues
to be a critical component of the SE the
town's self-identity as it faces the
next decade making investments in
conservation of forests Farms Trail
systems and Open Spaces will help
reinforce this rural Tradition at the
same time certain elements of change
must be acknowledged and used to guide
appropriate growth an aging population
limited housing and Commercial diversity
continued needs for infrastructure
investment and a change in climate also
demand proactive plans and active
responses we envision an Andover that
provides housing educational
recreational and Civic opportunities
that maintain the community's high
quality of life we envision an Andover
that welcomes a wider variety of new
residents and households ensures
opportunity for residents to thrive
throughout their life stages encourages
broad participation in community life
and safeguards the Integrity of our
natural Agricultural and historic
resources through sustainable
conservation we envision economic
development that takes advantage of
major transportation and Trail corridors
and is scaled to fit within the spirit
and pace of
Andover we envision Civic investment
that acknowledges and plans for a change
in climate and the need for increased
Equity of opportunity for current and
Future
residents the next decade and Andover
will continue to enhance the Civic
campus on both sides of Route 6 as the
heart of the community while integrating
thoughtful development in surrounding
areas and throughout the town
strengthening safe and vibrant
connections among all areas of Andover
balanced with conservation uh of natural
and cultural resources are essential to
the realization of this
Vision so it's it's a mouthful it's a
lot on one page but um
I would I would welcome your your
reactions and
edits and I've already provided some uh
initial feedback on this and so I'm
looking I will I will provide that
feedback again but I'd like to hear from
the other commission members uh
before I do
that I I like what is there um
I
think I know that many people tend to
think of this as agricultural but it's
not really that much but having
agricultural nature for centuries that
that fit today you look around town
there's not that many farms there's more
Farms other towns around us so I think
this is Well written
um because it just has some farms and
you're interested in keep keeping them
but um I really like the elements of
change that must be acknowledged and Ed
as a guide for appropriate growth I
think that's good and
um I think that the other the the parts
that you envision especially like the uh
and the welcomes a wider variety of new
residents and household and ensures
opportunities for residents and I think
it's all really good I really wouldn't
change much I just wanted to point out
the things I really
liked thank you
an one thing as I was reading through
and and it's very different reading
aloud and just sort of typing it onto a
page um I feel like the second we
envision statement is a little too long
and covers too much um and I don't know
what
what this this is what I would
propose would would
be oh life stages period and
then
here so sort of separates those two
thoughts good uh anyway that's that's
that's a minor change but I think
that's anyway okay as I'm as I'm seeing
it I kind of like it better this way
shorter I agree I feel like it I feel
like it makes sense because they really
are kind of two separate thoughts one is
like a population and the other one is
uh like a behavior of the
population yeah thank you I
yeah okay sorry that's other other
thoughts
we yes um I think it's I I also think
it's um worded well and you know covers
the main elements of the you know the
survey itself and the things that we
were looking to address when we started
Scott John what is it the last we
envisioned the climate changing climate
environmental
climate um yeah that's that is what I
meant yeah a a a sort of a nod to to
yeah climate change yep good good
comments Scott I think
uh I I mean I'm happy to rephrase it
that's to make it clearer like you know
it it's not the it's not the you know
the political atmosphere the political
climate of Andover is not the you know
the social atmosphere we are talking
about the
environment I would would a changing
well I don't know environment is sort of
the same multi-use word as as climate I
don't know is there you feel like
there's a better way to say that
Scott not sure I just keep rereading it
and I mean I feel like it should be
something like
supporting uh like supporting measures
to like mitigate or something something
about climate change instead of planning
for cl you know right now this is like
reading like you're planning for climate
change not like taking measures
against uh seems like if you have that
you have to almost put in what what
measures you're going to be I know I
know and I don't want to get specific
uh something like that takes measures to
address a changing climate and I think
you could put weather climate in there
to just specify it it
kind of you know weather and climate are
almost the same but it certainly lets
everybody know we're not talking about
the political climate or social climate
or any of
that
yeah I no
I I feel like it would be weird if
weather was in there it is that's that's
a little bit awkward I but I think
there's something we can probably figure
out there I'll I'll only fight
Kevin did you have any other
comments uh no again I don't I don't
really want to piggy back off of an I
like the I like the general uh message
that the whole thing is conveying
um I don't really have any specific uh I
don't really have any specific notes on
anything okay the uh you know the couple
of comments couple of areas that I was
struggling with through here and and on
I'll start with the the last we envision
I do think there are some things we need
to
address to support the changing
climate uh like the increased rain
events uh you know and that sort of
thing but uh when when it continued on
and the need for increased Equity of
opportunity for current future residents
I had a hard time understanding what
that might be because you know we we're
working to increase the recreational
opportunities for everybody we're making
a small playground we're you know for
the Young Folks we got the pickle ball
courts coming in in addition to the
soccer field and the track so you know
and and we talk about increased
opportunity for
housing um so I I was just if somebody
were to ask what kind of
opportunity are we talking
about I don't have a good answer for
that and and certainly you know we had
talked about the fact that we are not
going to have a lot of Economic
Opportunity because there's not going to
be a lot of jobs coming to Handover
that's not what andover's probably ever
going to be and so I struggled with that
last line and uh
increased Recreation
opportunities well didn't we cover that
yeah in we covered that in the very
first Envision yeah or maybe we need to
expand it up there to the so my second
comment and and you could think about
this one for a
minute and I like I like all the things
on that first Envision statement but I
thought there
was a significant difference
in
our success in the different areas like
do we have a variety of housing for
everybody know we got all these single
family homes so that was an area I
didn't think we were doing so good in
educational I thought the school is
probably you know if there's
uh if it's not the top
thing for
Handover uh certainly uh it's number two
right behind the open safe uh you know
rural environment that we all enjoy to
to get here so I struggled
with and we're going to work on on
making all those good for everybody to
maintain them but you know the housing I
think we've got that was the one that I
thought we haven't done a very good job
on yet and uh and we got a lot of work
just like every other town in
Connecticut it's got work on that one so
um in and that's not taken away from the
fact that you know I I think we've got a
a really good product here I I
just I yeah no to off of that Jed I
think you know when I when I had written
The increased Equity of opportunity and
I I tweaked the language a little bit
following your initial comments last
week but um I when I when I when I think
about this in terms of in in terms of
andover's context it really is largely
things like education housing
Recreation and perhaps that that is
already covered by the first two really
in in vision statements so the first one
we say housing educational recreational
Civic and then the second one we call
out residents we call out residential
opportuni so it's possible we don't need
the last one yeah and and you you might
add on that first one the increased
Equity of opportunity for housing
education Recreation and Civic
opportunities now I think we're doing
everything we can do
educationally uh we've got lots of Civic
opportunities for everybody anybody who
wants to participate in the town has
more than enough opportunity to do so
recreational I think we're we're hting
that again I go back to uh to housing
but we certainly want to make all those
things good so we have that high quality
of
life so yeah I would be happy to just
have the last Envision be addressing the
changing
climate and put period there yeah
um um maybe that one about changing
climate could be said takes measures to
address climate change because everybody
knows climate change has got to do with
the weather and it's yeah to use the
actual good good point
an the last the last we envisioned that
I
think you know we talked about in the
last concluding paragraph but maybe we
need a we envision is the uh the
complete streets plan you know when
we're trying to right this minute our
transport well 10 years ago our
transportation system was designed
pretty much for cars you know Eric's
been working with a bunch of other folks
to try and and
make it so that
uh Walkers and bikers and joggers uh can
can uh you know
go throughout the town and and I think
that's been you know that's been very
successful we're we're making good
progress on it there's still some stuff
to do um but I think that's one of the
things that we're trying to make
Equitable is the ability for people to
get around the town with more more means
than just a
uh a
car yeah I
so um so I highlighted it below in that
so I think you know that the complete
streets concept is what I intended with
the statement in the last paragraph
about strengthening safe and vibrant
connections among all areas of vover I I
don't I mean I wonder if does that
belong as a separate Invision statement
or do should I just clarify it where it
is and and and maybe try to incorporate
that phrase
my my initial thought was that uh it
needed its own I I I just uh I don't
know you know I
guess yeah i' like maybe just take that
whole next the next Envision would be a
safe town and you got that right before
the the complete streets thing so maybe
if you took safe and vibrate connections
complete streets and put that as an
Invision um
but I think uh you know it it would be
nice to be able to bike from one side of
Route Six to the other to the recreation
things and all that kind of stuff and
and we're headed that way I uh and and I
think we want to make sure that we have
uh the focus on continuing that
effort okay so I could I could rephrase
this up to a separate re Envision
statement a safe and vibrant and over
and and and structure it to include the
the concept of Safe Streets and yeah and
the the different sides of Route Six
yeah make we're working to make it so
that everybody can get around town with
bikes walking or or something yeah yeah
okay yeah I like
that because I know Eric would like to
see his own little complete streets
chapter in the PD before all said and
done and uh and you had made a good
comment John about how our last one
didn't have H you the the strong linkage
uh in all areas there
but yeah okay so I that yeah I think
putting this together as a as a
connecting statement talking about the
Civic campus both sides complete streets
something in there I I yeah I
I'll I'll think about it and maybe Dr
something up as we continue the
discussion but
yeah and I guess as as we talk you know
the
other the last comment I will make and
and it's got nothing to do with the
quality of the the product
provided we we talk about uh you know
some good
things but I would think there would be
a couple of things about Handover that
we would say we want to maintain
handovers
Excellence you know we don't want our
school to be
mediocre we want right this minute I
think we have an excellent school and we
probably want to keep it that way um you
know and and I like the excellent
environment now I'm looking for you know
more thoughts from other commission
members do we have that strong enough
when we talk about maintaining the high
quality of life or are there you know
should we point out what we think is
excellent about
Andover maybe we don't need
to I know you on
[Music]
thatan um as as if I can I don't want to
interrupt that that section but what I
what I as a way of spinning this forward
a little bit Jed to respond to your to
your thought is is um looking sort of
forward into sort of a structure of
establishing goals in a little bit more
narrative in the plan itself my thought
my initial thought was to actually use
the we envision statements which are now
six of them as s sort of setting off
sections of the plan itself so that one
section would essentially cover the
first we envision statement talks about
housing education Recreation Civic
opportunities and the quality of life
and then in that section would be an
opportunity to you know sort of uh
commend ourselves on on the high quality
of our educational institutions and and
continued dedication to to maintaining
them but you know I and and you know and
and then similarly you know the
residential section we EnV visited in a
wider variety of residential
opportunities would be a a chunk and
then you know complete streets would be
a chunk Economic Development and
transportation would be a chunk based
following the the re Envision statements
and that and that that would if that
works be the opportunity to kind of you
know brag on the schools and redouble
our commitment to that and that sort of
thing would it would it be too bold to
say in that first Envision statement
ended up with the community's excellent
quality of life y I kind of like
here I I don't have a problem with the
what exp
that's
I yeah I mean to me that
uh that hits that uh for me I I just
think you know we got it really nice
here you know I kind of like it I don't
want to lose
it when I think about what I like to see
in Andover I was just thinking today
about something like a
bank and maybe you know we've already
got the up in centry the Walgreens and
the CVS but it'd be nice if we had some
of those kinds of things you drive
through other towns
in single one um I Envision my
envisioning would also be like to have a
few
more of these types of things that are
basic to a
town um I don't know if we can get
anything in groceries but a bank
doctor's office um stuff like that how
would you put that in there I don't know
yeah I mean I agree with an because you
you you end up you end up leaving the
town for everything you always have to
go it seems like you always have to go
somewhere else uh you know unless you're
getting food from Handover Pizza um you
know it it just seems like everything is
it every Everything encourages you to go
elsewhere to get like an said food or
groceries or just like simple things
that you need to run out and grab
um you know I don't I don't know if we
have the population to support places to
to eat or go out um but it would be kind
of nice to see that as an option I don't
know how it would do but um you know
unfortunately there's like no you know
without the development of
some campus I guess we're calling it on
on some area of Route Six that's like a
little bit of a nicer area to pull off
to and whatever that doesn't really it
just doesn't really encourage people to
a I think want to set up a business like
that or doesn't really want to encourage
people to stop if all you have is the
Handover Plaza on Route Six right now
which I know that's like you know I know
that's what we're trying to develop but
uh I
guess all summarized I agree with what
an is saying that it seems like you
always have to leave to get the things
that want instead of trying to bring
people in to the town but I don't know
that you have to leave very far and
again I'm just no no I'm not saying yeah
because you got Ted's if if you're
looking you know Andover used to have a
grocery store I understand down there
maybe it was at Andover Plaza it was
before my time but you there just wasn't
enough demand there to make it viable
and and now we used to have a little
miniart there and that's gone out of
business because of uh Dollar General
filling that need if you're looking for
something quick um I did I I used to uh
do my banking at the stoping shop in
Willam manic I go groceries will manic
get to go to the bank there and I was
thinking today you know that particular
bank there's nothing there's nothing
around for me to do my banking anymore
close by and so uh you know I agree with
the comment on the bank I don't know
that we'd be able to do enough business
there or not but certainly uh it would
be nice to have one of those I haven't
figured out where I GNA go primarily do
my banking uh one of my kids lives in
Colchester so I stop at the MNT Bank
down there when I'm you know going to
visit him or whatever but um there also
was a bank in
Handover Savings Bank of Manchester
right at the same Plaza
y in the
70s and it would be nice to uh to see
something like that here but again it it
would have to be a good business
decision and and I don't I'm not uh
smart enough to talk on that right so
what I to to Ann's to Ann's point and I
think that's that's it's a really
important one
um what I would what I would I I'm
avoiding using the word Envision what I
would think uh
we would do
organizationally is I and I think that
this discussion we're having about the
types of businesses that would be
welcome and and useful and needed in
town fits into this sort of the economic
development statement
um and we could probably flesh it out a
little bit about the you know the types
of businesses we want but I would think
the detail about the types of businesses
Banks grocery additional restaurant
options whatever would then be in the in
the more substantive you know meat of
the plan you know that that the vision
being left a little bit more broad but I
I guess maybe an you're sort of the
original comment on this do does
something like
this referring to the the the needs of
the community is this what you you
intend to sort of bring into the vision
or or should we sort of sort of stick a
pin in in that more specific stuff and
deal with it when we get to the economic
development part I guess putting it in
the chapter section on economic
development would probably do
it okay yeah I think I mean and and
again I think that's
a I suppose it's a good thing that these
these vision statements are starting to
kick off conversation about some more of
the specifics but I think yeah the
specifics will will come in in future
months what about putting something in
there with our you know a pursuit of
affordable housing
contined pursuit of affordable housing
or something like that
that that's not that's not we envision
but I mean the way I see sound of
Andover now is we're the housing market
might may go we may have houses I would
say in another 50 years we might have
another 20 houses but the quality of
life in Andover is very good though and
and there's more and more things going
on in the Andover things the quality of
life the things that are here for the
town are getting a lot better but I
don't see Andover as a banking Community
or a CBS or Walgreens or anything like
that I think that we're always going to
go somewhere else for those things but
we we are going to have a a excellent
quality of life we're gonna have things
to do there's spiking things for people
to go to and an excellent school
um I haven't seen any change in 50 years
so
so Scott if we took that second Envision
line and said we envisioned an Handover
that works to create more affordable
housing so that we can welcome a wider
variety of residents households how
about that I think you know critically
we really you know the rest of the stuff
that's going on in Andor is pretty good
right now I think that the housing is a
real problem I do too and I think that
something that that's probably you our
biggest shortcoming yeah just like every
other town in Connecticut but yeah yeah
we're at the disadvantage we don't have
the Old Mill that we can turn into
apartments right yeah I I mean yeah and
I think do is it worth I mean is it
worth specifically calling out so I mean
we have the whole separate Envision
statement that really refers
to residential life um is it is it do we
want to actually go ahead and use the
word affordable somewhere in there I
think we should and an Handover that
welcomes
uh and you got you got to be careful
because you know we're we're not talking
about low-income housing we're just
talking about more affordable housing
than than what we currently have but how
about something like
this
yep yeah I think
uh what do you think
scottt yeah I think
yeah
um I wonder if we can put it in there
that we're you know we're
striving to
address affordable housing some
something and I mean there's eight of us
here we should be to come up with
something that that's that's one of our
priorities what I'm trying to say okay
so so yes I agree a stronger a
stronger statement here
that something like strives to welcome
is that strive to make housing more
affordable to welcome a wider variety of
new residents in
that is it I mean that's that's fine is
that is that the statement you had in
mind Scott to to striving striving
[Music]
to welcome
uh striving to create more affordable
housing to welcome a wider variety of
new residents yeah something like that
yeah so
we're really you know don't what that's
what we need to be doing yep I
agree what's everybody else think and
then so do we want to keep do you want
to leave this do you want to leave the
second affordable in there or do we not
need that now probably don't need
that yeah I think you could take that
out okay I I commend you on that
okay so for you know for everybody here
are there any any other big ticket items
that we want to chapter on that
we don't have addressed here and I think
we've I think we're
hitting most I guess if something pops
up as we go through we can uh you know
create another weird Vision later on but
I think that's
that's uh looking pretty nice so um what
I will propose from this point then was
as I'll I'll make some additional edits
to this um I'll send this out um shortly
in then you know in the in the next day
or so um so people can can see sort of
the consensus vision statement um and
then what I would what I would propose
and we can see if this works um is then
sort of taking each and we envision
statement and again making that sort of
a a a section of the plan um we can sort
of take these one by one and we'll State
like start with the the first one which
is essentially broadly defined quality
of life um and and start talking about
you know uh the the specific things that
make that up and and what are the ways
to way the ways to continue to promote
that prioritize that invest in that and
and we'll kind of build out the the the
chunks of the plan in that in that way
and I think Jed it would also splitting
these out would also
inform uh discussions with others and I
think you know certainly um the the we
envision statement about Economic
Development would be an opportunity to
to call in the economic development
commission to kind of go through some of
their goals some of the
um uh you know natural agricultural
historic resources you know bringing in
the Conservation Commission to talk
about some of those things um and if
there are other interest groups or or
stakeholders on the other sort of
Envision statements we would want to
have those conversations at that time as
well should should that
uh conservation Envision statement be
is encourages broad participation in
community life
different enough from the conservation
that that should be a different
statement in you know what what I
thought broad participation in community
life meant uh we got a lot of activities
going on a lot of a lot of ways for
people to have a say in Down's
doing maybe maybe that actually belongs
we we we reference Civic opportunities
up here yep and maybe that's duplicative
and and takes away from the strong
conservation Focus that's
that's so if we did this so you know my
my goal would be that the Conservation
Commission does their little piece there
the economic development does their
little piece Eric has already provided
us with a little something for the
complete streets what he envisions and
then that gives uh you know us a couple
to uh to be leading on which is
primarily the affordable housing thing
is is where we really need to
uh try to get some traction
yeah the community needs to get some
traction not just planning and
zoning so yeah so actually so so what
this what this is breaking into is Broad
topic areas you know first one sort of
quality of life broadly defined
affordable housing conservation Economic
Development
um essentially the climate change and
and maybe infrastructure and climate
change and then this one which is sort
of connectivity complete streets
that sort of thing
[Music]
um yeah I think that makes sense
structuring it like
that okay any anybody have any other
comments before we go on
I I think uh we've had some good
discussion on that which is uh certainly
what you know John and I were both
hoping would happen there um yeah thank
you all right all right I will uh I will
send out a revised statement uh in the
next day or so thank you
okay uh that completes old business I'm
going to move on to item seven on the
agenda approval of the minutes from the
regular meeting of May 21st
and I will make a motion well let's uh
I'm going to ask for comments first and
then we can make a motion to uh approve
as Amendment so or does anybody have any
comments on the minutes from the last
meeting my only comment uh would be
under members excuse we need to uh to
list Kevin as not being at that meeting
uh
and
was that was the only comment that I had
on there anybody else have any
comments okay I'll make a motion to
approve the uh minutes with the addition
of uh Kevin being
the excused from the last
meeting I'll
second okay was that you
Leanne yes okay thank you Leanne and uh
any other
discussion heing none I'll call for a
vote
an hi Scott hi leam
hi Kevin I'm gonna understand okay and I
vote I as well the passes 401 with Kevin
abstaining next item up is
Administrative reports we'll start with
the zoning agent
Jim yes thank
you I did send out at the last minute a
updated FL violation make tricks there
are a few new few new complaints came in
um one involved chickens on Aspen Al Dy
and one was one is on
U uh debris on on Lake Lakeside Drive
and uh I notice did go out to aspinal
and one is going out shortly to to
Lake what's going on with the
chickens well it's a it's a property at
the end of aspinal which happens to be
between fall under fall between 3/4 and
3 acres which is subject to a special
permit um over three acres you're
allowed as chickens as use a right um
under three qus there's no allowance for
farm
animals so apparently chickens were are
running in the street according to
neighbors and um is that
Jim is that that's a fact that people
with under three qus of an acre cannot
have
chickens
correct I can't you know we went through
that whole chicken thing and I mean they
want CH everybody to have
chickens Urban farming I I I know I and
so it's hard for me to believe that
somebody with three4 of an acre can't
have
chickens I'll send you there there's a
there's a big uh
chicken I have that booklet
somewhere and we changed our chicken
regulations we did and I'm looking at it
right now section
20.5 where it
says the purpose of this section is to
permit as of right under circum
circumstances keeping of a specific
number of farm animals for personal use
or consumption as an accessory use to
residential use on partials containing
3/4 to 3 acres in the
Ard homeowner may have up to eight total
combination of chickens guinea hens
turkeys rabbits without a permit without
a special permit so I think it's
probably based
on how many chickens the guy have but I
do see a lot of chickens as I go out
walking around
right everybody has chickens they want
everybody to have chickens who does well
the state
does like they want everybody to have
affordable housing in their house yeah
okay so it reads to me that if we've got
a parcel 3/4 to three
acres you can have up to
eight as of right if you're less than
3/4 you know which is a pretty small lot
yeah can't have chickens or other
animals and if you got more than three
you can have more than that I'll go I'll
Revis
that anyway because yeah I remember we
went through the the chicken chicken RS
right yeah
I don't remember them being that
restrictive well eight chickens there's
a lot of chickens at a small lot
yeah I'll go back and and check that see
see what the story
is so they have to come in are there lot
all the lots are smaller up there
Jim no this particular lot is not um
I'm gonna have to check I honestly I'm
not
sure where I came up with
that well the keeping of f i mean
C-section 23 that refers you to the
special permit
section yeah I did
in 20.5 you know the fir it probably
should be 20.5 a a homeowner may have up
to eight total of any
combinations without a special
permit okay I
take you had something if you had
animals that aren't on that list of
chickens guine hens turkeys and rabbits
that's when you need a special permit
but okay and I did get another complaint
on a pig but um
[Applause]
that I never f i was I only answered a
few questions on it
never I did not issue any sort of
violation noce
all right he that
wrong okay um moving
on there's just continues to be a fair
amount of
activity more and more complaints are
coming in um based on I think the recent
blight the adoption of the blade
ordinance seems the word seems to have
gotten out and U people have stopped in
and
and are making inquiries and
such moving
on I did s submit a letter of retirement
letters for
resignation um and I agreed to work with
the
town
during um course of uh
transition so no effective
date I just
uh have some personal responsibilities
and some
opportunities it's time to move
on I think that's all I
have any
questions no questions but I just
acknowledge the fact that uh you we're
going to miss you Jim that
yeah got a lot going on and uh I I
understand and want you to go pursue
those other
opportunities yeah I I do um appreciate
the opportunity and I also appreciate
all the time that you folks put in and
uh put in for the town behalf of the
town so thank you and and you can't
leave till the chickens are all under
control I I'll go back in love Lo load
gravel I get my information a few things
that you have to take care of before you
leave
and I did I have spoken to uh Mr gal's
attorney trying to work out a resolution
to
his unpermitted garage issue um but I'm
at this point I'm waiting to hear
from um his
attorney I had numerous conversations
with
her what what is happening with that now
well I
um trying to to come up with a solution
or I I've pointed out the issues with
with um gal's attorney and I'm waiting
to hear to get have a response from from
her what are
the what could be the
expected
um a good work that outcome
outcome yeah for that
situation well one of the issues was
involveed the it's it's a
garage I'm calling it a garage he's
calling Mr galdi is calling it an
acccessory structure
um more specifically called it a Sheed
and our language uses the term garage um
or it it's say um structure that can be
know be used for no more than two
vehicles we're talking lak Zone um and
there's a lot of room for wiggle room
under that regulation and U I'm waiting
to hear I did get some feedback from
brance a while back on it um
um I just
soon
uh hold off for the moment on that until
I have have all all the all my
information
Jim
yes J this is a different Mr Grimaldi
than Keith Grimaldi is that correct this
is yes this um Pat and Vinnie Grimaldi
at 357 Lake
Road okay I just know what I
occasionally there's something in the
paper about them going to zba Etc I just
mention it because
I think it's Keith Grimaldi who was
mentioned in our
minutes last month so I'm just making
sure
that yeah Keith gal owns the property
that was approved as Rosewood
Acres right that's on on Route 87
correct yeah it's Route 87 Route 6
lindol Corners
property okay I'm just trying to
establish that they're two different we
happen to have two different Mr Grimaldi
with things
that may be in front of us or at least
in passing
understood um one other issues I did
indicate I
would post some information on
educational opportunities and I did send
it to I did send the link for Yukon the
Yukon clear program to Kate um for
posting um so if if you go to the the
PCC website there's there's a link with
a lot of opportunity spelled out on
there um some really good
good programs good training
opportunities sorry what PCC website is
this under clear Yukon clear what I'm
saying is on the Planning and Zoning
commission website is the link to the
Yukon clear link okay so on our own
website
correct
okay but all the commission members that
have you know it it's all great training
but the uh commission
members are good for two years based on
what we had done
before new members to the commission I
think have a year to get some training
done and uh and
so one of the ways will be to attend the
uh next march Connecticut Bar
Association land use training uh which I
always think is pretty good and uh I
highly recommend that for everybody here
but you can get good portions of that if
you if you're trying to meet the
requirement immediately to do that I
don't think anybody's in that position
that they can't uh get their training
done and that would be Kevin who's uh
you know reinstated to the commission
after the first of the year and we'll be
bringing somebody else on board to uh
replace
Steve anything else
Jim no okay thank
you
John okay uh just a couple of additional
things sort of Rapid Fire um we're still
working on uh connecting with Keith
Grimaldi the potential developer
Grimaldi um who is again putting his uh
sort
of incomplete uh development project on
the market um but we wanted to to Circle
back with him I've also reached out and
made contact with uh gentleman named
Kier Shaw who is the current owner of
the Andover Plaza um to talk with him a
little bit about um development in
Andover and and enhancements to his
property um you know getting getting his
take as a as a um commercial property
owner as well as potentially um looking
towards the future I'd had some
conversations with Jed and Eric about
some state grants that might be
available for you know facade
Improvement for commercial Plaza
Improvement that it's possible we could
look at maybe a a cost match thing where
you know Mr Shaw could make some
improvements and the town could could
share some of the or a grant could help
us share some of the cost um so wanted
to reach out to him for that reason um I
will note that um some good news and I
don't know how much Eric has shared um
that the town did somewhat surprisingly
get um a grant through the uh D Rec
Trails um program um we got uh I think
around
$80,000 to uh basically complete an
engineering design for
um a trail a multi multi-use Trail to
connect the Town Civic campus up across
the town's um property to um the uh hop
River Trail um so it would be and and so
if this was completed and the the um the
the bike ped path was completed along
Route 316 it would actually create um a
whole Loop it would create multiple
Pathways to get from town hall and the
school and the senior center to hop
River in Route Six safely and would also
create sort of a loop trail so we got um
both both halves of that funded at least
from a design standpoint so that's great
um and then we are also um I believe a
finalist it hasn't been formally
announced but we we received a
notification from Senator Blumenthal and
Senator Murphy's office that the town
was basically shortlisted um for a
congressional appropriation um to um
purchase emergency generators um that
would interconnect the the buildings at
Civ Civic campus there the the new
Senior Center the town hall and the fire
station um with a with a on demand
emergency backup generator um so that's
a couple hundred thousand dollars that
that would very much help and so we're
hoping to hear good news on it it it
looks positive but they haven't made
final word um on that John that's not
the
$410,000 um I'll have to check yeah I
thought it was a little south of that
but
that that sounds like it might be about
right I I didn't think it was that much
but um on the short list now
yes um it's and I mean and this is this
is it's I think it's basically a
recommended project um but these things
all happen in congressional committees
and so things can go sideways real fast
but um I I'll say you know with putting
on my amateur political scientist hat um
this is an election year uh and
everyone's looking to to you know bring
home the figurative bacon so um I think
uh there will be a lot of mutual
approval of hey everyone gets you know
everyone gets projects to bring home to
their districts so I I suspect
well you know the incentives are in
place to to have a successful uh
application round here but but that's
where we
stand that's what I got Jed okay thanks
Sean um
in from an inland Wetlands water course
commission perspective nothing new to
report
there that brings us up to commission
discussion and and we mentioned uh Steve
Nelson submitted his letter of
resignation my my thought was
that I would try to get one of the uh
alternates that are currently on the
board to uh to take that position I have
to uh the thing
that I've got to go take a look at is
when I let the town clerk Carol know
about the opening and she was putting
something in the River East and and
letting the political birdies know
um that's probably going to reference
the
regular
opening and so what I really looking to
do is you know have one of the
alternates Fleet up
and fill the whole with the new Alternet
but I'll go you know work on flushing
out the details on how to make that work
smoothly but that's what I'm looking at
doing and and uh we'll start working on
that at the next meeting
here
um any questions on on that particular
issue
okay yes Le um Carol might have
mentioned this to you and I haven't
looked at it in a long time but um I
think there's a time frame I want to say
I know we have two Selectmen here I
don't know if they've done this recently
but I think there's a maybe 60 days that
we have to fill a vacancy ourselves and
there's no reason to think we' go beyond
that I'm just bringing it up and then I
I want to say it's 60 days and if for
some reason we didn't then I think it
goes to the board of Selectmen does that
sound familiar to people y that that
does sound like the way the
charter is worded I know you know last
time we had an
opening and it took uh a long time to
fill and the board of Selectmen didn't
want any part of trying to fill it nor
did I particularly want them to um well
that's that might was probably helpful
at the time
but anyway I'm just bringing it up now
in case we do run up against it so the
the other thing and I didn't see it in
the charter
but but town clerk Carol said it's
Connecticut Law is that all three of our
alats cannot be from the same political
party and uh
that's why when we had the election last
fall we couldn't have
both an Marie and
Patrick d uh joined the commission
because that would have resulted with
with Susan three Democrats and we
weren't allowed to have that so that's
another piece that we've got to keep in
mind the way I read our Charter was we
tried to have a difference in in the
political parties but that wouldn't in
the way of Manning the
uh the commission and so I've got to go
make sure I know all the ins and outs as
we had for but I do think uh we'll we'll
find somebody to fill that
spot at least I'm hopeful
um now do you have the requirement there
that you can't have the three alternates
being the same political party what kind
of requirements is it for the those of
on the main Planning and Zoning
commission so the there's a percentage
that uh that we should have and if you
look in in the State uh General
statutes for a five person commission we
need to have one
person of uh the alternate party so we
could have four of one and one of the
other right now pretty evenly split we
had the perfectly split commission two
Democrats two Republicans and an
independent till Steve you know resigned
as the independent uh but whoever we get
coming into the commission will be in
good shape uh with those numbers
wise okay thank
you okay um so that's a commission
discussion next item is missell
any
other de yep um just while we're still
in commission discussion to um talk
about the Gravel Pit for a minute if can
we invite attorney CTO to the public
hearing um just you know due to the the
you know what you said about um I forget
how you phrased it but just you know we
the the last one was so lengthy um can
we
invite him so that he's in on the ground
floor of the public hearing he he has
been invited and it's on his calender to
attend okay good thank you
yep anything else from
anybody okay miscellaneous anything from
anybody public comments from anybody in
the public
can I be a public for a minute you
can
um at some point in the future I don't
know when but I I think that we need to
have a short discussion about the
incident that
happened on H you know Pine
Ridge I don't know if we do want to have
that conversation or we
don't um
what's your feelings about that
Jud well so
uh I can't remember if it's in our
bylaws right now I was so I've been
working on with Eric the job description
for the new zoning enforcement officer
yeah in uh in a uh and there should be
periodic
inspections by both the you know the
wetlands agent and the zoning
agent
um and uh you know I I kind of thought
that on Pine Ridge the house was built
everything was done I thought that was
ancient history so I was really
surprised uh you know in
uh and so yes we we need to figure out I
guess until certificate of occupancy is
is finalized we need to keep our finger
in the pie there periodically and and we
have uh we have the right in our
regulations to do that it uh you know
the property owners have to Grant the
town access to the property to make sure
that things are are going right so this
this this could happen again to anyone
else it could um the other the other
thing you know that
uh I've been a little disappointed that
we we
didn't catch it earlier and do better on
is is the whole Gravel Pit thing you
know it it came uh to late as he was
requesting his extension that he wasn't
complying at all with the with what we
had uh what his plan was and uh
so so yeah that uh that will be
uh a part of what's going on
and that just you know will will need to
be a
priority somehow in and the world's full
of things to do you know how how you
jockey those um we need to help provide
an input but you know it's really Jim's
call on on how he spends his limited
resources right
we all have too much to doine Ridge and
the Gravel Pit were were two examples of
things that didn't go exactly as I had
hoped
yeah and one of the you know this what
we're doing is not nuclear power but one
of the things that we used to uh say if
you can't stand the answer in the end
make sure the proper controls are in
place along the way to uh prevent it
from happening and
U I think a little bit of that in this
cas would have done that
but but to a big extent the town has
always relied
on people making complaints to uh you
know provide us where where we're going
to go off and
look not the best way and and we'll try
to do better but uh I I can see how that
one happened I uh I was quite surprised
when I first heard about
it so yep good comment something we need
to do in
uh and there's I think there's there's a
there's a lot there in turnover that you
know I'm concerned that we we get right
but
uh right either there a b things things
sometimes slip through the cracks
and that one surprised
me
okay any any other public
comment commission comment or
otherwise okay the uh date of the next
regular scheduled meeting is July 16th
uh I guess I will go back and ask uh
Scott or an is there any news or insight
on when you think the uh new senior
center community center is going to be
open for
business we're gonna have a
uh we're just hashing out the date but
it's there's going to
be a a grand
opening I think either the 3 or the 10th
of
August a the 10th of August okay
so I was hoping that we'd be uh in the
new building for the July meeting but
that might be a little too aggressive
yeah
but okay very good so uh my expectation
at this point is the next regularly
scheduled meeting will be Zoom
well once again I thought you know I I
had logged in all the different methods
to make sure the website worked and I
was shocked that you know come on line
and I said okay John must have another
meeting he's going to nope wasn't John
it was the charter commission will will
try to make sure that that uh yeah
doesn't the chair of the charter
commission um noted that he thought the
town had multiple Zoom licenses yeah I
think we do I think we have two but
apparently whoever set up the charter
meeting must have logged in as zoomend
over. you know CT so I you know I don't
know if they're two separate addresses
but you know they were both when I
logged in as you know Zoom at and over
c those were both you know listed for
today so they clearly weren't set up on
different accounts
yep they were good enough to wrap it up
so you can only imagine my dismay of
trying to get the the ready for
immediate at 7:00 and can't log into the
site
so I guess I was spoiled with two good
good entries in a row there John and
uh we'll have to be alert to uh there's
a new possibility for goofing it out but
next month will'll be uh yeah we can we
could we're innovators in that way yep
yep um August you would like to have a
meeting the first meeting in the new
building I would
yeah I'm hoping that we can use that
little room not the big room and that
the Acoustics in there uh work out good
so that uh you doing it in a hybrid
fashion that works out well
acoustically that's going to be the
20th um yeah I don't have my calendar
out 20th in front of me right now but
somewhere around there yeah
okay okay well enough on that the next
one will be on zoom on July
16th and uh anybody got anything else
before we move to
adjournment ging nun thank you all for
the uh the flexibility of
uh of hanging in there to uh to rapidly
get online when the other group was done
it's uh I make a motion it's 8:30 to
adjourn second second it okay Scott you
got the second on that all in favor say
I I I I any opposed any
abstained motion passes
500 thank you everybody and uh we'll see
you next month